# Evapotranspiration
Calculating the actual crop Evapotranspiration by using high resolution satellite images.
This project aims to provide accurate estimates of crop water consumption for sustainable irrigation management in hyper-arid regions facing escalating climate volatility. This study develops a high-resolution (10-m) integrated framework to map actual evapotranspiration (ETa) and moisture stress across the Eastern Nile Delta, Egypt, during the 2023 and 2024 summer growing seasons. The methodology builds on the dual FAO-56 crop coefficient approach, dynamically and simultaneously replacing the basal crop coefficient (Kcb), soil evaporation (Ke), and water stress (Ks) parameters with synchronized Sentinel-2 and Landsat 8/9 satellite-derived proxies (NDVI, TVDI, CWSI).
  1.	Download specific bands of Sentinel-2 and Landsat 8/9 satellite images online and calculate different vegetative indices, then save the calculated indices as a geotiff.
  2.	Developing the model equations for calculating the reference Evapotranspiration (ETo) for 12 dates in the summer seasons of 2023 and 2024, and applying comparisons among the different dates. (ETo.ipynb)
  3.	Developing the model equations for calculating the actual crop Evapotranspiration (ETa) for 12 dates in the summer seasons of 2023 and 2024, and applying comparisons among the different dates. (ETc.ipynb)
  4.	Presenting the results for the 12 dates in the summer seasons of 2023 and 2024 on the selected AOI (East Delta), including spatial representations, comparisons, zonal statistics, and correlation matrix. (Comparisons.ipynb)
